hi this is pressure Walker and welcome
to the mind your decision Channel
today I want to discuss sports betting
and a guaranteed way that you can win on
any sport that does not end in a tie a
small disclaimer is that I don't
encourage gambling of any kind or sports
betting this video is only meant to
illustrate some cool math but it will be
a cool technique you can use this to
have a guaranteed win on the NFL Super
Bowl the NBA Finals the Wimbledon
Championships or any tennis Grand Slam
you can use it for the world series of
cricket you could even use it for
Olympic curling like I said you can
really use this method to get a
guaranteed win on any number of sports
as long as they don't end in a tie the
only prerequisite is that you're going
to need two friends who are willing to
accept reasonable Gamble's that is
Gamble's they think that are actually in
their favor so how is this going to work
we'll set up an example where there two
teams a and B that are going to play and
you have two friends who are fans of
different teams so one of your friends a
is a fan of Team A and he just thinks
they're going to crush a team B he
thinks there's a three and fourth chance
that that his team is going to win now
friend B really thinks that his team is
as much superior and he thinks there's a
3/5 chance that his team will win so you
have two friends who both think that
their team is going to win this happens
all the time is so what what can you do
this is a normal situation and you can
take advantage of this to make a very
favorable situation for yourself so what
you need to do is you need to set up
bets with each of the friends as follows
with Friday you're going to pay them $4
if their team wins and they pay you $5
if their team loses
with friend be you set up very similar
bet you pay them if they're four dollars
if their team wins and they're going to
pay you five dollars if their team loses
so you have a situation where you're
going to pay each friend if their team
wins they're going to pay you a little
more if their team loses but we can't
just say that both of these friends are
going to accept these bets
just because you offer them we're going
to go through the map to show that each
friend actually thinks this is a good
bet for them so we'll start out with
friend a who thinks his team has a 3/4
chance to win so the friends going to
think about the bet in terms of the
expected value this is mathematically
the you know they're either going to be
the events that team a wins and team a
loses and the person's going to have to
pay out certain amounts in each
situation so the expected value is the
amount the friend has two wins if team a
wins which is $4 times this friend
thinks this will have a 3/4 chance of
happening we will add to that they will
have to pay out $5 in the 1 & 4
situation where their team loses so when
we run through the numbers this bat you
know friend Dave use this bet as having
a positive one dollar and seventy-five
expected value this is a tremendously
high expected value it means they're
winning a dollar 75 on average you know
all Vegas that's a you know all other
most Gamble's in life maybe there will
be a little positive expected value in
actual casinos most of the bets are
negative so this is actually a hugely
positive expected value and for that
reason you would expect that friend a is
going to want to accept this gamble we
will do a very similar calculation for
friend be the only difference here is
that that friend B has a different
belief they
that their team B has a 3/5 chance to
win regardless when we run through this
expected value friend B is going to see
expect a positive 40 cents on the bet
again this is a positive expected value
it's not as good at bat for friend B as
it is for friend a that really doesn't
matter if you see a bet which has a
positive expected value that still means
it's in your favor and we would expect
that friend B is also going to want to
accept this gamble so now both friend a
and B are willing participants you're
not trying to con them in any way they
both think that you've offered them a
good bet but what you've done is
actually created a situation where you
can always win you and we'll we'll go
through the diagram of why this is the
top branch is what happens when team a
wins in that case you're going to pay $4
to friend a but then Fred B pays you $5
so on net
that means you net a positive $1 if team
a wins in another circumstance if team B
wins you're going to win $5 from friend
a and then you're gonna have to pay out
$4 to friend B but still this means
you're going to have $1 left over for
yourself
so either way no matter what happens you
are guaranteed to win $1 and you've
offered your friends bets they're
willing to take so you've created a
situation of perfect bets where you are
always going to win and that is the
guaranteed way of winning on sports
betting so you can think about how to
use this in practice it will you know
your friends are going to have different
beliefs about the games you'll have to
set up the bets differently if your two
friends find out about this they may not
necessarily be happy that you keep
winning so whether you can actually do
this over and over again like I said I
don't recommend gambling or sports
betting of any kind
but this is a useful concept and I will
mention this is somewhat how sports
betting works in Vegas and other
gambling houses they do set up
situations where not necessarily for one
game they're always going to win but
over time they hope that you know over
several different games they create an
edge for themselves in the house and
it's obviously much more complicated but
that is somewhat the principle of how
sports betting works I hope you enjoyed
this video please subscribe to the
channel you can also follow the mind
your decisions blog I post weekly
puzzles on Monday weekly Game three
posts on Tuesday and you can also follow
me on Twitter at fresh talker